This wiki is used to translate ikiwiki's basewiki, and demonstrate those
translations. [Ikiwiki](http://ikiwiki.info) is a wiki engine; its basewiki
is the set of pages that are copied into every wiki it powers.

Most of the English pages on this wiki are locked. You cannot edit them.
You can, however, edit the translated versions of those pages, and your
edits to their PO files will be folded back into ikiwiki proper.

The [[SandBox]] is unlocked if you just want to play around with editing
a translatable wiki.

## Instructions for translators

If you want to translate ikiwiki's basewiki into your language, follow
these steps:

1. Note that the license of the basewiki is as follows. Your translation
   will need to be licensed the same:

   > Redistribution and use in source and compiled forms, with or without
   > modification, are permitted under any circumstances. No warranty.

2. Is your language listed as one of the available translations above?
   If not, [[Joey]] needs to enable it. Edit this page and request
   it be enabled. Include the name of your language as it should be displayed, and the two letter language code. Saying something about the translation resources you
   have available will help. Is it just you, or will there be a whole team?
   Do you have just a little time to help, or do you want to commit
   to translating the whole thing?

3. Now get to translating! The easiest way to get started is to find a 
   page on this wiki that is less than 100% translated to your language,
   go to the translated version of the page, and edit it. You'll be dumped
   into a web form, editing a PO file. Save and watch the percent translated
   numbers go up!

4. After a while you might get tired of the web form and want a real text
   editor, or even a specialized po file editor. No problem, this wiki can
   be edited using git as well:

   * Install git, and run this command to check out
     the wiki: `git clone git://l10n.ikiwiki.info/`
   * Edit the po files for your language, in the
     `l10n.ikiwiki.info/po/underlays/` directory.
   * Run `git commit -a` to commit your changes.
   * Run `git push` to push your changes back to this wiki. It will
     automatically update!

5. If you get a useful percentage of the basewiki translated, let [[Joey]]
   know so he can activate your translation in the next ikiwiki release.

## Requests for translation

* Czech: Hi Joey, could you please enable Czech (cs) language?

  * It seems I'm the only translator for this language
  * I have the translation of basewiki already ready, so after the activation
    I will just commit it and fix any issues I will notice in the live environment.
  * I have just enough of time to keep basewiki updated (expecting it not to change too much)
  * I *might* have a look at the other pages in the future, but nothing promised

> Done, thanks! Please let me know when it's checked. Hope I got the name right BTW. --[[Joey]]

## Translation hints

* This page does not need to be translated. :-)
* Don't translate page names inside [[WikiLinks|ikiwiki/WikiLink]],
  such as `\[[FooPage]]`
* Do translate link **descriptions** inside WikiLinks, such as
  `\[[`**Page about foo**`|FooPage]]`
* Some [[directives|ikiwiki/directive]] don't contain **translatable bits**;
  some do. Compare `\[[!inline pages="blog/*"]]`
  with `\[[!inline pages="blog/*" description="`**this is my blog**`"]]`

## Translation problems

### redirection

Some pages use redirection (cut, copy, paste, taglink, ...) which translates to

    URL=../../../../ikiwiki/directive/cutpaste/

on the English page, but to

    URL=../../../../ikiwiki/directive/cutpaste.cs/

on the Czech page returning an error about nonexistent page

## List of pages

Here is a list of all the translatable pages in the basewiki:

[[!map pages="basewiki/* and !*/discussion and lang(en)"]]

If you manage to translate all of the above, here are some additional
translatable pages:

[[!map pages="(smiley/* or directives/*) and !*/discussion and lang(en)"]]
